Good morning.
Today we're going to be talking about,
in this session,
something new in Leopard that
we call Identity Services.
I was just yawning before I came out.
I have to point out that if
you're going to have to give a
big talk in the morning sometime,
I personally recommend if you
want to look and feel your best,
you go to a big party the night
before with lots of really loud
music that shakes your whole
body and drink a bunch of beer.
That works for me pretty well anyway.
So with that in mind, let's get started.
I thought that I would structure this
talk around some actual software,
some sample code that we
want to add some features to.
And so I'm going to start with kind
of an overview of where we are in
Tiger with peer-to-peer networking
between Tiger systems and look at a
sample app called Picture Sharing,
which is a software that we've
been using for a long time.
And then we're going to talk about
some of the features that we've
been using for the developer tools,
and then talk a little bit
about Identity Services,
and then integrate that into
Picture Sharing so that at the end
we have a better Picture Sharing.
And we'll see what it does.
Thank you.
So when I say peer-to-peer
collaboration in this session,
what we're talking about
is connecting between,
say, a Tiger system to a Tiger system
or Mac OS to Mac OS.
Examples are personal file sharing,
screen sharing for system services,
but also applications such as iTunes
music sharing or iPhoto album sharing.
And maybe your application does
some similar resource sharing,
which would hopefully be why you're here.
The key thing about this kind
of collaboration is that we
want to make sure it always
works well in ad hoc networks.
And to that end, we have,
in addition to CF Network APIs for
doing network connections,
of course we have Bonjour to support
simple service browsing and discovery.
[Transcript missing]
At the same time,
we want to make sure that
there's actual security,
good authentication going on.
As I mentioned,
we want to make it work well
both in managed networks
as well as ad hoc networks.
And, of course, we want to maintain a
great user experience.
So I mentioned we were
going to use a case study.
This is a screenshot of an example
application called Picture Sharing.
This is how it builds right now on Tiger,
how it looks.
Really simple functionality
on the server side.
You give your service a name.
It's basically an example
code showing Bonjour,
Service Discovery.
So you give your service a name,
you click the Start button,
and you pick a photo or an
image to share from a short list
that the app makes available.
On the client side,
this is the client app called
Picture Sharing Browser.
And it shows on the left
a list of picture sharing
services found through Bonjour.
And when you click on one,
it's a really simple-- I don't even
know if you can call it a protocol.
It just opens a stream and downloads the
image into the client so you can view it.
No access controls at all.
So what do we want to
do to picture sharing?
There's four steps.
First, we want on the server side,
whoever's sharing the picture,
we want to be able to let
them specify who is going to
be able to view the picture,
basically set up an access control list.
Then we need to make that access
control list persist so that when you
quit and restart your application,
we remember who is allowed
to see the picture.
When a connection request comes in,
we need to authenticate the connection,
see who it is, and finally,
check if they're in the
access control list,
if they have actually-- so
do the authorization step.
Do they have access to the picture?
So what kinds of stuff do we need to
make this all work easier on Leopard
and make this easy to implement?
We need a bunch of infrastructure.
And that's what Identity Services is.
We want to make it easy for
applications to get information
about users and groups,
both those that are defined
locally or created locally,
as well as users and groups
on a managed network,
such as in an LDAP or
an Active Directory.
things accessible through Open Directory.
At the user experience level,
we want to beef up what we
can do in system preferences,
account preferences,
for managing local users and groups,
and also come up with some UI guidelines
and some new UI elements to make it easy
for apps to manage access control lists.
So first, the infrastructure part.
Identity Services,
it's a new foundation for
working with users and groups,
as I mentioned, both local users as well
as managed network users.
It's essentially built
on top of Open Directory.
So any user record or group record
that's in the Open Directory--
The identity store on your system
is expressed as an identity
in the Identity Services API.
At the same time,
Open Directory is a very open schema,
a very open API.
It doesn't really enforce any
kind of policy or uniqueness.
It's pretty hard for applications
to go in and say modify a user
or add members to a group.
There's just a bunch of
data parsing you have to do,
and you have to come up with unique IDs.
And so the idea of Identity Services is
to enforce all of that policy,
make sure we have data integrity,
and make it much easier to
deal with users and groups.
So here's where it fits
in the framework stack.
It's part of the core services
framework here in the middle.
As I mentioned, it's built on foundation
technologies in Darwin,
such as Open Directory and
some other things.
But it also sits below Carbon and Cocoa.
So if you already have an application,
you don't have to change your linkage.
You already have access to
everything in core services,
including identity services on Leopard.
So now I'd like to talk about
just the small number of concepts
that you need to understand to
work with Identity Services.
The first is just the
idea of a user identity.
That's simply an identity or someone,
usually representing a person,
that can be authenticated some way for,
say,
a network connection to prove who it is.
And that authentication technique
is bound to some identifiers such
as the full name of a person,
which is what we would
usually show in the UI.
And there's also some machine identifiers
such as we assign a 128-bit UUID,
unique ID, to each user.
For legacy compatibility,
every user also, of course,
gets a POSIX name,
which is the name with no spaces,
usually all lowercase,
as well as a unique UUID assigned.
In addition, aliases are a way to assign
alternate names to an identity.
So if you want to give
someone a nickname,
you can do that.
Now, on Tiger, every user-- oh, sorry,
there's other attributes
that you can assign,
some optional attributes,
such as you can have image
data or an image URL.
We support both image URLs to files,
because directory servers work that way.
They have either data
or a path to a file.
You can also put in an email address,
the primary email address for a user.
Now, in addition to password credentials,
the API also supports storing
an X.509 certificate in the
repository for the user.
And we'll talk about that
a little bit later also.
So here's an example.
We have a user named Charles Darwin,
POSIX name C Darwin.
A long UUID has been
assigned automatically,
as well as a POSIX UID.
Chuck, Charles, often went by Chuck.
I don't know if you knew that.
And there he is.
His image data is also in there.
Now, on Tiger, pretty much every user
was a full login user.
So if you went to Account Preferences
and created a user,
you got a home directory
created for that user,
and they were allowed to
log in at login window.
In Leopard, we're introducing a new class
of user called a sharing user.
It's sort of a lightweight user.
It's stored in the same way as a regular
user in the open directory store.
It's available through
the Identity Services API.
But it's a minimal user
with no home directory,
and there's no login shell
set in the user record.
So if they walk up to login window,
they can't actually log in.
They don't have access.
So the sharing user is intended
for when you want to be able to
create identities that you want
to grant access to your photos or
other resources that you're sharing.
And over the network,
you can create local users
that are very lightweight,
very quick to create.
We're also supporting groups.
Group identities are simply group
identities that have membership.
And we look at it as mostly an
advanced access control tool.
Most end users aren't ever
going to create a group.
But for advanced users that want to
do a lot of access control management,
it's something you always wish for
right away if you don't have it.
When you start getting a
lot of local users created,
you want to be able to
create groups for them.
Otherwise, most of the attributes of a
group are the same as a user.
They have a unique ID, a full name,
and so on.
You can even have an image or
an email address for the group.
So where conceptually do Identities live?
And according to the API,
they live in Identity Authorities,
which is a trusted repository
for Identity information.
And every system has a built-in
local Identity Authority.
And that's where all of your
local users are defined.
Essentially,
this is a representation of what's in
the local open directory user store.
If you're on a managed network,
you have what's called
the network authority.
So that might be users
defined in your LDAP server.
And in the API, when you say you want to
find or look up some user,
you have to specify
where you want to look.
So you can look at the network
authority or the local authority.
Often you want to look at both.
And in that case, you specify the default
authority for identities,
which is a synonym for both.
repositories.
All right,
so that's the conceptual overview.
Let's take a quick look at the API.
And I just want to give you a
feel for what you can do with it.
It's a C API based on the
core foundation runtime.
So the object types follow all of
the standard naming conventions they
have after creating or copying them.
You need to make sure you release
them with CF release and so on.
There's two types.
Pretty simple API, really.
Type CS Identity Ref represents
either a user or a group.
We decided to have one type
for both because so many of
the functions or methods that
you call on them are identical.
Almost all the attributes are the same.
And since C doesn't
do subclassing at all,
it's just easier to have one type.
That does mean that if you really
need to know whether a given
identity is a user or a group,
you have to get its class attribute.
So you ask for the class and you
get back an enum value indicating
whether it's a user or a group.
And then most of the API on this
type is a series of attribute
setters and getters and setters.
The other data type is
the CS Identity Query,
CS Identity Query Ref.
And this is how you pull existing
identities out of an identity authority.
You create a query.
So how does that work?
Basically,
when you create a query object,
you point it at a particular
identity authority.
And that means it's only going
to find identities there.
And you specify some other sorts of
criteria that you want to search on.
And you execute it.
And the result is an array
of matching identities.
There are several different
types of queries you can create.
A simple one, you just say "all," and you
point it at an authority,
and you say whether you
want users or groups,
and it gives you
everything that it finds.
You can also search by name,
either an exact match or a partial match.
You can, if you have a specific
UUID you're looking for,
let's say you're working
with a file system ACL.
File system ACLs are all UUID-based.
So you have a UUID, you want to look up
that user information,
you create this kind of query.
Again, if you happen to have a UID,
let's say you need to look
up the owner of a process,
all you have is a UID.
You can create a query
on the POSIX identifiers.
You can create a query for
group members if you want to
enumerate the group membership,
and you can create a query
for the current user to
find out that user record.
There's two ways to execute queries.
The simple way is
synchronous query execution.
And it's simple because
it's very procedural.
You create a query-- three function
calls here-- creating a query.
This one's looking for users in
the local identity authority.
So it's going to give me all local users.
You execute it, csidentityquery execute.
When it's done, if it returns true,
you say csidentityquery copy results.
And you get back an array
of all the identities.
If the execution returns false,
then you've got an error in the third
parameter to the execute function.
And for those of you who
didn't hear about CFError,
I hope it was covered in one of
the Core Foundation sessions.
But there's a new error
object called cferrorref.
It's based on the NSError API.
And it's a nice way to return errors
because usually they have localized
strings associated with them,
as well as underlying error information.
So if you get back an error as the return
from a cferror-based function like this,
then you have to make sure you release
the error if the function returns false.
Now, the problem with synchronous queries
is that they might take a long time.
They might block.
They will almost certainly
be doing local I/O,
but if you're running against the
default identity authority and the
system is bound to some directory server,
then you're going to be
hitting the network also.
And so certainly if you're a
single-threaded app and you're looking
at queries on your main thread,
you don't want to get the
spinning pizza of death.
So we recommend generally that you
use asynchronous queries using a
pretty standard callback model.
Another advantage of asynchronous
queries is that we wanted to make
it easy to get change notifications.
It's not that unusual to be working
with an access control list in one
application and somebody switches
over to account preferences and
creates a new user or a new group.
And it might be appropriate to
have a system that's not always
the same as the previous one.
But it's not that unusual to be
working with an access control list.
So we wanted to make it easy for that
new user to show up in the applications
query that it happens to be looking at.
And so if you use
asynchronous query execution,
you get change notifications for free.
The way that works is you
create a callback function and
events happen on the query.
Mainly three kinds of events: added,
changed, and removed.
And you get passed an array
of identities that are not
the same as the previous ones.
So you get a bunch of added
events that come in in batches.
And the array indicates
which identities are added.
If you leave the query running
because you haven't stopped it,
then you'll get changed events
or even removed events if either
an identity is deleted or,
let's say,
you're doing a name-based query and
the name of the identity gets changed.
So if you leave the query
running under query criteria,
then you'll get a removed
event for that identity.
So removed doesn't necessarily
mean it's been deleted.
To execute asynchronously,
you just call CS Identity
Query execute asynchronously.
You pass in the query and some options,
a client context structure,
which includes your callback and a
reference constant that you can control.
And then you specify just a single
run loop and run loop mode that you
want to receive your callbacks on.
And in many cases,
you just specify the current run
loop and the default run loop mode.
Now, whenever you start a
query asynchronously,
if you just release it,
when you're done with it,
you're not necessarily guaranteed that
your callback won't be called anymore.
So as with other asynchronous
APIs on the system,
you want to make sure you
call CS Identity Query Stop.
Because releasing doesn't
necessarily mean that the object
is going to be deleted right away.
Because you don't know really
what the ref count is for sure.
If you say stop,
then it clears out your callbacks.
And that's the signal to us that we
will not call your functions anymore.
Once you have an identity,
say retrieved from a query,
there's just simple getters for
all of the attributes such as
get the UUID returns a CFUUIDRef.
You get CS Identity get full name.
CS Identity get class I mentioned
that returns an enum value.
You can test, say, if it's a user,
then you can call CS Identity
get certificate and that
returns the sex certificate ref.
These are all CF objects.
However,
because the functions are getters,
it's very convenient.
You don't have to release any
of the values retrieved here.
By the way,
if you happen to call CS Identity
Get Certificate on a group,
it's not going to crash or anything.
It's just going to return null.
Most applications aren't going
to need to modify identities.
Some applications might want to use a
group as their access control model.
If you have a service that runs
as root or as a privileged user,
you might want to create a
group to represent your ACL.
But most applications aren't going to
need to actually be creating users.
However, the API supports it.
If you're an admin user and you
go through the Authorization
Services authentication dialogue,
then you can create users and groups,
change attributes,
and it uses a commit model.
So you can call setters on an identity,
and then you say,
"Commit this," and it writes
it back to the authority.
It can be committed either
synchronously or asynchronously again.
Simple example, set full name and then
CS Identity commit.
So that is a real quick
overview of the API.
And now I wanted to switch over to the
laptop here and show you some sample code
that's available on the session website.
It's called Identity Sample,
and its purpose is just to
exercise the API and serve
as sample code for you guys.
We have a sidebar on the left here
which shows all of the local users,
some of the people in my group.
So it's doing initially a
query for all the local users.
It can also do a partial
name match query.
So as I type, as soon as I pause typing,
it starts a query for
identities beginning with MAR,
and it finds all the marks.
By the time we ship Leopard,
you'll be able to search by
last name also automatically
without doing a different query.
I can select an identity and
it shows all of the detailed
attribute values over on the right,
including if there's an image,
it shows it.
I can click the plus button
if I want to create a new one,
new user.
I'll go ahead and create Charles Darwin.
And if I don't assign a password,
there's actually no password.
And what I mean is they
can't authenticate.
It's not a zero-link password.
It's like disabled user.
But I'll go ahead and assign a password.
And there's Charles Darwin.
If I want to go and, say,
add that nickname Chuck,
I can do that.
And maybe add an email address.
And when I'm done with the changes,
I click the Apply button,
and that calls CS Identity Commit to
write the changes back to the store.
So pretty simple application.
And as I mentioned,
it's available on the website for
this session along with preliminary
documentation for the API.
Back to slides, please.
So, of course, end users have a need to
do the same kinds of things
that that application does.
So what we've done,
if you haven't seen it yet, on Leopard,
you can look at the Accounts
Preference pane and see that
there's more stuff going on now.
You can actually see the different kinds
of users and groups over on the left.
It has My Account still up at the top,
and then there's a section for
sharing accounts or sharing users,
and a section for groups
down at the bottom.
In this example,
I clicked on the Core Services group,
and it shows the membership
over on the right side.
It's pretty simple to add somebody
just by checking the checkbox.
So that's what Accounts
Preferences looks like.
It's sort of the central place
on the system that we use
to manage users and groups.
And now we can finally go
back to picture sharing.
We have enough infrastructure to
be able to add access controls to
the picture sharing application.
So here's what it looks like currently.
And we want to be able to set up an ACL.
So we're ready to do step one.
And to kind of show you
what that looks like,
I'd like to please welcome Alex Aybes
up to give us a quick view of
the new picture sharing server.
So like Chris mentioned,
we want to be able to share photos
with a restricted set of people,
not allow access to everyone.
So to do that, we have updated the
Picture Sharing Sample Code,
the Picture Sharing Application.
And I'm going to show you what
we've done to it right now.
So here's the picture
sharing application.
You just saw the original
one on the slide.
So like you can see,
we've updated the UI.
We've added a couple of radio buttons,
a list, and the plus and minus button.
This is-- I'm going to
show you how this works.
This is the UI we recommend you adopt
in your applications when you want
to do access control list management.
This is what it should look like,
and this is how it works.
So the first button, Share with Everyone,
maintains the current functionality.
Anyone, everyone can access the photo.
The second button that I'm
going to click right now,
you see that it enables the list.
We have now enabled authentication.
Access is restricted.
In the current state, no one can actually
connect and see that photo.
So now we've enabled authentication.
We need to add people.
How are we going to add
people to this list?
Well, for that purpose, we are providing,
introducing in Leopard,
a new standard panel that
we call the Identity Picker.
And this allows users to pick identities.
So let's say I want to share this photo,
this beautiful ladybug, with my mom.
She also happens to have an
account in this computer.
She can log into that machine.
So I want to share this photo with her.
What am I going to do?
[Transcript missing]
And Chris is not on my Mac,
and I've never shared with him,
so he's not in the sharing users.
But I know I have him on Address Book,
so all I have to do is select
the Address Book icon and
click on Chris and press Share.
Since I've never shared with Chris,
I need to set a password for him.
So I'm going to set a password for Chris.
Don't repeat it.
It's one, two, three, four,
just for when you need to log in.
And go share.
And that's all I really need to do.
Under the hood,
we have just created an identity,
just like we would have
done the identity sample,
but showed the minimal UI to the user.
This is not to scare them too much.
The other thing I wanted to mention
is that now that you've done this,
all these identities are available
throughout all the applications
that use the Identity Picker.
So you're going to be able to see the
sharing users in any app that uses it,
as well as in the system preferences,
the accounts preferences,
the identity sample, anywhere you go.
Like I mentioned,
the API is extremely simple.
There's just a couple calls.
You can get a modal dialog, a sheet,
whichever you want.
And in those two cases that
were fairly different as far
as what we had to do-- one,
we had to just pick an
identity and return it,
the other one, create it-- the API,
you don't have to worry
about any of that.
You don't have to worry
about creating it.
All you do is call the method to bring
up the dialog and then handle and process
through the identities it returns.
So that's it for the demo.
Back to you, Chris.
CHRIS BROADFOOT: Thank you.
So as Alex mentioned,
sort of like a file open
panel or the AB person picker,
the address person picker,
the Identity Picker insulates your app
from not only the UI details of browsing,
but even from the details of, say,
being able to write from within
the context of your application,
promote Address Book entries
to sharing users.
So that they actually have a credential.
So that little sheet that came
down prompting for a password,
that was not implemented by the app.
That was still all part of
the Identity Picker panel.
So that's pretty nice.
It simplifies all of that for your app.
It keeps people working right in your
application to edit access control lists.
However, I do need to mention that
it's still a work in progress.
I'm sure that the UI is
going to go through some more
change before Leopard ships.
And that probably means the API is
going to change somewhat also.
But it's available in the seed
if you want to play with it.
It's part of the Address Book framework,
abidentitypicker.h.
Alex also mentioned the
API was pretty simple,
and here it is.
AB Identity Picker, alexinit,
creates a picker instance.
And then you call the method
beginSheetModalForWindow,
specifying the parent window,
a delegate object,
and the didEndSelector is the
delegate method that gets called
when the panel is complete.
And at that point,
it passes you an array of identities.
All right, finally,
we're now to step two, persistence.
We have an ACL in the application.
We could enforce it while
the application is running,
but if we quit it and restart it,
we want to keep that ACL associated
with the shared resource.
This is not terribly complicated,
but you have to have a simple way to
serialize or flatten your ACL into data.
Conceptually,
an ACL is just an array of identities
that might be just the identity,
or it may-- each identity may
have a read/write privilege,
something like that associated with it.
It's an application-specific thing.
Every application has different needs.
But the fundamental need is you
need to be able to take an identity
that's an entry in your ACL and turn
it into some sort of data reference
that you can use to restore the
identity when your app launches again.
One way to do that is with the UUID.
I mentioned everything-- every
identity gets a unique UUID.
We've been doing that, actually,
starting in Tiger.
But on Leopard, you can use the UUID.
But we actually recommend
something a little different,
which is a feature of the API called
Persistent Identity Reference.
And it's just a data blob.
You ask an identity
for its data reference,
and you get a data blob back.
One of the things in there, of course,
is the UUID,
but it gives us the flexibility
to put other things in the
persistent reference that help us,
A, find the identity faster
when we need to look it up,
and B,
know if it's been moved to a different
machine and do the right thing,
just in case we want to know
that this identity blob really
isn't valid on this machine.
So how does that look?
One call, CS Identity,
create persistent reference.
So that takes an identity,
gives you back a data ref,
which is your blob.
You save that in your preferences
file or whatever you're using as a
data store for your shared resources.
And the inverse operation then
is to create a query based
on the persistent reference.
So when you need to turn that
back into the same identity
object it was created from,
you CS Identity query create
for persistent reference
and pass in the data,
execute the query.
And assuming the identity still exists,
you get back-- the result is
the identity that you want.
All right.
Step three, authentication.
Well, authentication is
actually the hardest part.
So I'm going to save that for last
and go around to authorization.
Authorization is still
working with the ACL,
so it fits in flow-wise
a little bit better here.
So authorization is when
a connection comes in,
you've gone through authentication,
so you know who the
connection is coming from.
Let's say then the result
of the authentication step
is an identity object,
which represents the user
making the connection.
And you simply want to know,
is this a user that actually has access,
in this case,
to the photo that we're sharing?
And so basically you have to
compare the entry or the identity
against the entries in your ACL.
And by the way,
you might have groups that
have been added to the ACL.
We didn't show that,
but you can add groups to an ACL.
So that means you need to write--
this is the simplest case,
is what we do in picture sharing.
If you have the ACL represented
as an array of identities
and you have an identity ref,
which is the user that's connecting,
you create a loop through
every entry in your ACL.
And if the entry is a user,
you use CFEqual to compare the
entry to the connecting user.
CFEqual is implemented in CS Identity
such that if two different objects really
represent the same person or identity,
then CFEqual returns true.
So you use CFEqual for user entries.
If the ACL entry is a group,
then you check group membership on it.
You say, is the connecting user
a member of this group?
And if so,
if either of those ends up being true,
then the user has authorization
to access the resource.
So that takes care of everything
except authentication.
Like I said, this is a little trickier.
Everyone does authentication differently.
There's a lot of different protocols.
One way to do it is
simply implement your own.
So let's say you want to prompt the
user for a password on the client
side of your application and send
the password over to the server.
And you can basically
then look up the username,
use the Identity Services API to say,
is this the right password for this user?
And you're done.
You've got your authentication.
But that's a lot of work
for your application.
You've got to do all of the UI.
It means every application has
a different user experience
for doing authentication.
You've got to worry about not passing
the password over the wire in plain text.
And there are other issues like, well,
then there's no way through
your application anyway for the
user to change their password,
for example.
So there is a better way,
which is called a
Network Authentication Service.
It kind of abstracts the
whole authentication process
away from your application,
insulating your app from
the authentication process.
And this has a lot of advantages.
So for example, Kerberos is a network
authentication protocol.
And it has a lot of advantages.
Kerberos has been around
for a long time now.
And so it has very
nice security features.
For example, the password is actually
never even sent over the wire.
It uses this nice little exchange of
encrypted messages to pass tickets,
to grant tickets,
which prove to an application that the
connecting user is who they say they are.
It's an open source standard created
at MIT about 20-some years ago.
And it also has a single sign-on model.
Once you get a ticket from Kerberos,
it's usually good for several hours,
which means that the application,
other applications,
can use that same credential pulled
from the Kerberos credential cache.
And the user doesn't have to go
through an authentication step,
again, to connect to the same machine
or any machine that's part
of the same Kerberos realm.
But there are some disadvantages,
some downside to Kerberos.
It typically requires a lot of
maintenance and a lot of administration.
It doesn't really account currently
for ad hoc and mobile networks.
And finally,
the user usually has to know something.
They definitely have to know
they're using Kerberos and be
a little educated about what
Kerberos is and what it's doing.
So what we'd like to do in
Leopard is build on what we've
done with Mac OS X Server,
which has been very successful.
It makes setting up a
Kerberos realm really easy.
And maintaining the Kerberos user
database in sync with the X Server user
database is all tightly integrated.
And so we want to build on that
and build a Kerberos server
into every Leopard client.
I'm glad you clapped.
This is pretty cool,
and it's a real challenge because
essentially we're saying we want to
take care of all of those disadvantages
that I listed on the last slide.
So the real goal is the user
shouldn't need to know that
they're actually using Kerberos.
It means that all of the administration
has to happen automatically.
Every time you create an
Identity Services user,
they have to be set up as a local user
in the Kerberos principal database.
It means we need to be able
to integrate Kerberos with
Bonjour Discovery so that we can find
the KDC for a given application server.
And we also want to make sure that,
as I said,
the user shouldn't really need to
know that they're using something
called Kerberos or what our realm is,
but they should get all the
advantages of using Kerberos.
So we want to make a
great user experience.
And we've been talking to the Kerberos
team at MIT about this for a while.
And they're pretty into it too.
So there's still some problems to solve.
It's not all there by any
means in the leopard seed that
you got at the conference,
but
We will be working out all the
last issues before Leopard ships.
And what that means is your application,
when it's running on Leopard,
can assume universal Kerberos
availability when connecting
to other Leopard systems.
And this means if you have an
application that wants to work
in an ad hoc environment but also
needs to work in a higher security,
kind of a static,
traditional Kerberos environment,
you have a single authentication
architecture that you can
build into your application.
It does mean you need to adopt Kerberos
authentication in your application.
So what are the choices for doing that?
Probably,
if you're not familiar with Kerberos
like I wasn't a couple years ago,
it always sounded kind of scary,
especially if you looked up the
header files and took a look in there.
Because one choice is you can
write direct to the Kerberos API,
which is a fairly complex thing and
something you might want to do if
you're already familiar with it or
you've already adopted Kerberos.
But there is another way to go,
which is a layer above that called the
Generic Security Services or GSS API.
It's sort of a high-level way
to take a network connection
and use it to fairly... Well,
I'm not going to lie to you.
Yeah, I am going to lie to you.
It's really simple.
-
No, it is easier to adopt because it
has a model that assumes you're
making a network connection,
and it's particularly easier if you
have some good sample code to go from.
And that's what we're trying
to do with the picture sharing
enhancements is produce a complete
application that does access control,
also does GSS authentication,
because it's a fairly
straightforward recipe once
you have some code you can use.
And so GSS is our recommended way.
If you want to fully adopt
Identity Services and the preferred
authentication model on Leopard,
then this is the way to go.
One of the other advantages of
GSS is once you've gone through
the authentication steps,
it's really simple to basically create
encryption and signing capabilities
for anything going over the network.
And that's, again,
exactly what we're doing in
picture sharing is once you have
an authenticated connection,
we can GSS wrap the picture data
and GSS unwrap it over on the
client side so that it's all
strongly encrypted on the network.
So that kind of summarizes
what we did to picture sharing.
And Alex and I would like
to show it to you now.
If you remember, we need the laptop.
So Alex left the server running,
showing the Ladybug picture.
And I have access to
the picture right now.
So I'm going to go ahead and
bring up Picture Sharing Browser.
There it is.
It's got the service list
over on the left and a spot to
show the picture on the right.
And just to show kind of the machinery,
this is just for credibility here,
I'm going to launch the Kerberos app,
which shows what Kerberos credentials
are in the credential cache.
CHRISTIAN LANDRIFF:
Which is nothing at the moment.
And here goes nothing.
I'm going to go ahead and
click on Alex's service.
And we actually are getting to a
fairly normal looking logon dialog.
It says, please type your account name
and password for Alex's Mac.
So it tells me I'm
connecting to Alex's Mac.
It's asking for my username and password.
And it wants to know if I want
to add that to the keychain.
This is, in fact, a modified Kerberos
authentication dialog.
So when I go ahead and connect,
I see the picture.
And we get tickets in the ticket viewer.
So that worked.
That was great.
Very exciting.
But what happens if I quit the app and
I see that the ticket viewer or the
Kerberos app still has my tickets there?
So in theory, I can go back in to
Picture Sharing Browser and
click on Alex's service again.
And single sign-on allows us to
use the credentials in the private
credential cache for the user.
There's no authentication needed again.
Now, they're into it.
Good.
Yeah.
Now, let's say I go home,
and I come in the next day,
and my tickets have all expired.
So I destroy my tickets.
There's no more credentials in the cache.
I can go in,
launch Picture Sharing Browser,
Click on Alex's service.
I do have to authenticate again,
but because of keychain integration,
the password has been pulled out
of my keychain for Alex's Mac.
And I just click OK, and I'm in.
So now, if I don't want to share
this photo with you anymore.
ALEX KOMOROSKE: What?
No.
Yeah, no.
Don't ask me why.
I just don't want to.
ALEX KOMOROSKE:
Alex is removing me from the ACL.
And there, you're gone.
ALEX KOMOROSKE: And the way we wrote
this application-- well,
the way our colleague wrote
this application-- thank you,
Mark Krakmal-- it's always waiting
for more data from the server.
And so as soon as he
revoked access to me,
we just sent an error over the network.
And immediately, I was denied access.
And now Alex is going to go
ahead and add me back in.
We're friends again.
You may view my ladybug again.
ALEX KOMOROSKE: And boom.
We get access again.
So we've done the authentication
and we have live authorization.
Not all apps need to do instantaneous
access controls like that,
but it helps illustrate what's
going on with our application.
All right, thanks, Alex.
So just to recap,
the four things we went through,
we added ACL editing to the
server picture sharing app.
We save that ACL.
We didn't actually show that,
but you can quit the
server and restart it,
and it loads up the ACL again.
We added GSS-based authentication
to picture sharing.
And last step,
we enforce the ACL by looking at
every entry and comparing it to the
authenticated identity coming in.
So that is most of what
I wanted to talk about.
We've got a few minutes left.
And I wanted to say a little
bit more about Kerberos,
because it does get a
little bit better from here.
Kerberos is-- because it is open source
and it's been around a long time and
has a lot of people working on it,
industry standard and all that,
If your app adopts it,
you get all of the future enhancements
to Kerberos moving forward.
And because you have adopted
an abstraction of the whole
authentication process,
then it means Apple and Kerberos
can control the user experience,
the kinds of credentials that
the authentication process uses.
And I want to talk a little
bit about Kerberos PK-ANIT,
which is an extension to Kerberos.
It's, I guess, a variation on K-ANIT,
which is the Kerberos
log command line tool.
PK-ANIT is a public-key
infrastructure-based
authentication scheme.
So if you have X.509 certs
associated with your users,
you can use cert-based
authentication through Kerberos.
and essentially have no password
authentication for users.
[Transcript missing]
So .Mac is,
the .Mac team's pretty into that,
and they're interested and
currently pursuing issuing
essentially Identity Certificates
through .Mac in the same way.
And this is planned to be a free service.
You don't have to be a .Mac
member to be able to use it.
Anyone can get a handle through .Mac.
And our plan is to tightly integrate
this with Identity Services and
pretty much attempt to replicate the
kind of transparent experience you
have working with iChat encryption.
So again, this isn't, of course,
available in the WWDC seed release,
but we're working hard on it.
So now I really am done.
In summary--
We talked a lot about Identity
Services as the foundation for
working with Identities on the Mac.
In that architectural
diagram down at the bottom,
I had Darwin.
And in the Darwin box,
I just had Open Directory.
But I wanted to point out that, in fact,
if you adopt Identity Services,
it really abstracts you
from other things too.
So for instance,
I could go back to the diagram and
add Kerberos into the Darwin box.
If you work with Identity Services,
it means you're abstracted from
whatever we do under the API to
make the whole user experience of
authentication and working with
access control lists that much better.
Start investigating.
If you're not familiar with Kerberos,
sounds like some of you are
because we got some applause.
That was cool.
But this is something you're
going to be able to count on being
available on all Leopard machines.
And we hope to have more to say
about .Mac Identity Certificates
in the not too distant future here.
So we don't-- they compressed the
schedule on Friday here because,
well, I guess we have to be out of
here by noon or something.
And so we don't have time for questions.
The next session actually
starts in 15 minutes.
But for some reason,
they called our lab the
Identity Picker Lab,
but it's really the
Identity Services Lab.
And it starts at 11 o'clock,
which means we're all late already.
We're just going to be walking
down to the Mac OS X lab,
and we'll be happy to take
your questions as we do that.
So thanks very much.